Welcome to Lesson 2, Java Persistence API.
In the last lesson, we learned about JDBC. It's simple.
You obtain a connection,
send some SQL statements and process the results.
The last step, process the results,
its complexity varies depending on the application.
Some applications just show the data from the DB in
a UI but some do complex processing on the retrieved data.
You might be wondering why you need to learn
another API to work with the relational database.
Before I answer that question,
let's look at the orders example from the last lesson.
We have two tables, Orders and Order_Item.
Order_Item is related to others using a foreign key.
Let's say the list of orders need to be shown in a UI.
These tables would be represented in Java like this,
a class for Order and a class for OrderItem.
The fields of the class mapped to the columns of the table.
Java being an object oriented language,
the fundamental way to organize data is through objects.
In order to populate the list of orders,
you need to write a select query to get the list of orders,
and another select to get the list of order items for all the orders.
Not only that, the results of those queries need to be iterated to create Order,
Order_Item and then link them.
if the customer places an order,
then Order and Order_Items need to be translated to insert queries.
That's a lot of code for something as basic as creating and listing orders.
Instead of translating objects to SQL,
wouldn't it be nice just to read and save objects?
Now, I'll answer the question of why GPA.
Java persistence API allows you to work directly
with Java objects and translates them to relational data model.
This concept of mapping objects to relational tables is called Object Relational Mapping.
In this lesson, you will learn how to use JPA to present and load objects.
Then, you'll create relationships between objects and manage them using JPA.
Next, you will write queries using the JPA Query Language.
Then, you'll use Spring Data to reduce
boiler plate code and seamlessly integrate your persistence layer into the Spring Stack.
Finally, you will test your JPA code using Spring Test framework.
Let's get on with the lesson.